# codeAcademy_Photo_Caption_Contest

## Overview
### Photo Caption Contest

In this project you will create the backend for a platform for users to participate in a photo caption contest. Your server will host a few images and you will create endpoints to authenticate and authorize users. In order for a user to create a caption, they will need to be authenticated (signed-in). You will need a database design and schema in order to integrate a database layer to store all your users and captions. You will use PostgreSQL and the ORM, sequelize to communicate between your database and your server. As you create your endpoints you will be testing them on Postman to ensure that they work correctly. Once the server is running, you will use a localized cache to optimize the performance of frequently requested data. Finally, you will write the documentation using Swagger and deploy your project to Heroku.
Project Objectives:

    Use Git version control
    Create documentation using the Swagger API
    Implement a database
    Integrate existing API endpoints with database layer
    Database implementation for transactions
    Deploy app to AWS


### Running the server
To run the server, run:

```
npm start
```    

## Prerequisites:

    Git and GitHub
    Javascript
    Node.js/Express 
    Postman
    PostgreSQL
    Database relationships and configuration
    Sequelize
    Swagger
    AWS


### Node.js/Express
To complete this project make sure you have the latest version of Node.js installed locally, and Postman in order to test your API endpoints.

### Database relationships and configuration
You will be working with a database for this project so be sure to have PostgreSQL installed.

### Sequelize
Lastly, in order for your server and database to communicate with each other, you’ll be making use of Sequelize, a handy ORM that’s very popular with Node.

### Swagger
This server was generated by the [swagger-codegen](https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-codegen) project.  By using the [OpenAPI-Spec](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification) from a remote server, you can easily generate a server stub.

To view the Swagger UI interface:


```
open http://localhost:3000/docs
```













